[Music]
hello and welcome to the BBC good food
podcast with Tom courage I'm Orlando and
we're here today to talk about citing
ingredients cooking techniques and
general kitchen chat plus we have an
original Tom carriage recipe for you to
try out at home whether you're a
beginner or a budding chef welcome back
to the BBC good food podcast I'm here
with Tom and Rosie and we've got a great
subject this week we're going to talk
about steak now Tom if you could only
eat one steak for the rest of your life
what cut of steak would that be oh do
you know what it really is so hard cuz
they're all so amazing like I love a
rump steak rump steaks great but you've
got usually teef like you know it's a
[ __ ] but no more you used to teach the
more flavor Ares it's great sirloin
beautiful great steak but also that
makes amazing minute steaks that's
really good for quick flash frying
really good fill it steak I mean who
doesn't love Philly steak flavor-wise
not the best but texturally it's
absolutely delicious yeah people are
mean about Phillip they say oh it
doesn't really taste anything but it
feels so good yeah exactly but it does
actually taste a beef but it just not
very very strong if you if you roast it
you do a good job of it you can you can
make Phil it tastes delicious I mean you
can make it taste great don't get me
wrong you know it's not a bad flavor
it's not like it's it but there are rump
steak probably tastes better for me
because you do have to chew it a bit
more but and then rib eye is amazing a
really good rib eye steak because
there's two different textures to it
there's the I bit and there's a cat bit
over the top and this so that so you get
so probably I would choose ribeye if I
was to have one steak again forever and
that would probably be a ribeye steak
but that would be torture so you
wouldn't it would because there's so
many of them that's the thing and
they're all delicious bavette though
something simple like the effect that
you is beautiful full flavored amazing
cook and then you cut it cut it slice it
against the grain and then it texturally
it's
Tasik there are so many great cuts of
meat out there for a steak but yet prob
probably ribeye I think why do we all
love steak so much there's something
about it isn't it is it the simplicity
of it or the the luxury of it or me I
think it's definitely a childhood thing
again a bit like the roast dinners it
reminds me of being very young on on on
holiday in France and discovering steak
frite and so whenever I have a steak
that always comes to mind and it's quite
a nostalgic thing it's a real treat like
I think steak frite was probably one of
my first meals out in a restaurant and
that so that has like a kind of real
treat label attached to it yeah it is
that is there's something special about
it the fact that it is it does feel like
a treat it's more expensive it's
inexpensive cut of me that just then
through the nature of the process that
the animal itself takes a lot longer to
grow and rear and just everything about
it is a bit more specialized and also
the cooking process of it you want it
medium-rare you want it well-rested
there's something a bit more to it that
comes that there's something about steak
there but the process of rearing the
animal the process of that how many
different cuts there are the thing of
cooking it the resting it the whole the
journey that a steak has to go on before
you get to eat it kind of adds little
layers of special that's gone into that
yeah on every step of the way and that's
what makes it pretty I mean that's what
makes it special and we can probably all
remember the particular States that
we've eaten in our lives in particular
place yeah absolutely outstanding
I remember that one that's being put off
an aeroplane at the wrong Airport the
plane landed at the wrong Airport some
catastrophe happened like that and we
were we were shipped off and we were
taken to the local steak houses in the
United States Endor well I had the most
sublime steak of my life there but I
think these circumstances might make me
very relieved to be eating steak yeah
yeah rather than sat in an airport you
know everyday Olding in there lamb plane
with nowhere to land with seem to have
been the yeah
another possibility yeah I wondered if
there if it was a bit of a boy thing as
steak but Rosie if you love it that much
perhaps not
I mean I'd say I love it I'd say isn't
something that I have a lot of at all
it's it's not every Saturday night you
know it's it's quite rare actually it's
quite a rare thing it is something that
I do tend to order in restaurants
actually rather than cook at home and I
think it's because I know that if I'm in
a really good restaurant the steak is
going to have had a lot of love put into
the cooking of it but also like we're
saying into the whole process and it's a
real it's a real special thing and it's
also something that I kind of crave with
really kind of rustling fried frites and
that's that's again something that I'm
not really tending to do at home so it's
very much a restaurant experience for me
yeah they should be very good at it in
the restaurant and they I bet you're
good in your restaurant we're all right
we've had steak and chips on there no
Flowers's we've opened so yeah it's
something that we're very something that
should being a pub steak chips onion
rings perfect onion rings always with it
always with it yeah and what what cuts
the state do you offer we we have fill
it we just we just use fill it steak
we did start with rump steak we moved to
sirloin but we got too many complaints
about people saying that the state was
chewy and it'd be like yeah it's a rump
steak you just so we made the decision
that we go well okay if people don't
want because people expect steaks to
melt in the mouth and they don't the
different cuts of dick offer different
things unless you go well alright let's
get Phil it's taken and you know we get
no complaints that's it you know people
are very happy texting these fine they
also go you know that they come to us it
feels like a special occasion and Phil
it's thick just say everything about it
being a special occasion so so yeah so
no complaints is lovely Phil it's takes
on really aged marbling beautiful
flavors that's where we go in it's a
great steak and there's something
slightly will it work from one point of
view it's it's luxurious but it's also
starting on ecological because there
aren't that many states in an animal so
you end up with a whole load more that
you know the chuck there's a whole lot
of other meat whereas it's rather select
the bits for steak that's that's part of
the reason why it's also so expensive as
well if you think there's only there's
only two Phil it's on the whole of a cow
you know and it's a great big beast yeah
two
or fillers but I'm actually really into
the cheaper cuts when it comes to steak
so what they call the butcher's cut so
the bavette it has like you mentioned it
has so much flavor really you get so
much more bang for your buck a it's
cheaper and B it's just it's really
concentrated flavor so I love to use
that and use it sparingly as well I when
I say it's rare for me to have steak at
home I mean in the capacity of sitting
down to eat an entire steak that's
something that I do rarely but I do I
would get a bavette and Grill it and
then use it as an ingredient say sliced
against the grain very thinly in a kind
of salad situation or on tacos or with
flatbread you know as an ingredient or
as a kind of aspect to a dish rather
than it being the main thing yeah and in
that case it isn't that crazy because
one state serves three people meat
doesn't it so I start and prevent it's
really interesting we're going to come
to the different cuts in a moment but
the bavette if you're lucky enough to
see it it's if if we described it it's
kind of flat cart isn't it and a thin
flat cart and there's a trick to cooking
it isn't it because you don't cook it in
cooking quite the same way as the other
stage you need to cook it hard and fast
yeah and very hot because if you cook it
through it turns it clobbered yeah it's
got a lot of texture hasn't it so yeah
can you come very mouth to you for
missing for gristle or something
no no just because of the nature of it
the way that it works yeah it's it's not
it's it's not got a higher fat content
and just because of the part of the
muscle that is it's a working muscle
rather than like a phyllis steak phil
it's always so soft texturally because
they don't they don't they don't they're
just carried around yeah so actually you
know so when you come to bits of steak
that are part of the muscle and the
animals movement and and structure
that's the those are the bits that need
that little bit more cooking so it
becomes a braising cup or very quick
cooking taking off and rested and you
don't want to cook it any more than
medium any more than medium at all on a
bavette otherwise it does become
difficult to eat yeah it comes to e
becomes julienne but it's good on a
griddle isn't it because for a barbecue
oh yeah hot
not like a not like a slower barbecue
wait wait you know like a barbecue like
most people have where it's too hot
where you burn a sausage on the outside
is worn amid or that's what you want for
the vet no sausage slower for a sausage
and there's also something in the
slicing of the state that's important
because but then you would never serve
without slicing out really thinly and
you do that against the grain don't you
the the muscles are running a it's very
hard to slice it with the grain because
it's a good catch yes yes kind of hard
motion whereas if you're slicing it
against the grain you can slice through
it whereas if you try and slice it with
the grain the whole steaks moving with
the knife it's actually rather nice to
serve steak size stop anyways now in the
recipe that we're going to taste in a
moment lucky our switches from the
website which is a ribeye steak Tom you
slice that up and it's I don't know it
isn't that one's too lazy to slice one's
own meat but it somehow makes it more
delicious feels a bit more presented
that's those things and it feels I mean
it goes it feels that it's going much
further as well you know it feels that
you're getting more for it you know it
makes Center feel especially and also if
you've cooked it beautifully and
perfectly you want to show off that it's
nice and pink in the middle yeah I've
been doing that with pork chops recently
cutting them off the bone and slicing
them thinly and they they look much more
special than the old pork chop you just
a bit of presentation isn't it it's the
same thing although the Phillips say we
show we serve as a single thing so
allowing everybody else to cut them at
the restaurant so it depends on the cut
it really does and if you can be
bothered you know now where are we on
the different breeds of beef because you
they're very interested butchers now and
telling you what what sort of animal
that was whether it was an Aberdeen
Angus or a Dexter or something like that
obviously it does make a lot of
difference but Tom do you do seek out
certain breeds or is it no and I tell
you why it comes back to my
conversations that I have with suppliers
and it comes down to the with the
butcher talking to the butcher about
what is the best right now what have you
got is the best right now
and whether it's Dexter whether it's an
Angus or horrific cross whether it what
a little boy is in limos and beef
whether whatever it is it's what is the
best that's that you have right now
that's been hanging for the longest got
the best marbling got the way because
there's no point saying I just want
Dexter beef but if the Dexter cattle
that have come in the marbling is not
quite right or they've not been hanging
for long enough for the flavor there's
no point in taking those if next then
there's a cross breed of beef that's got
better flavor cut but I just I work with
supply go and let me have the best that
you've got yeah I can never understand
this because you're expecting the
butcher to be able to tell you about the
meat now I know that he knows about
butchering is his job and he knows about
animals things like that but how does he
know how it's gonna cook up I mean he
know he's not testing it in his kitchen
he's not lying bits of steak out and you
can tell from raw products whether it's
done by marbling and whether it'll cook
well whether caramelized I see you can
tell when you can tell whether a nose
animals been stressed under slaughter
you can tell that the butcher can tell
you can I just say we're saying he there
are some really fantastic female
butchers are very the butcher I use in
dailies called Lizzie she's at the black
pig and she is just a dream she is an
absolute dream for any home cook or any
chef she works with local farmers she
gets half a cow in every fortnight and
butchers it all herself she ages
everything beautifully and she's
absolutely amazing so we mustn't forget
there are there's actually a girl
fishmonger in Taunton as well so things
that things are looking up but um I'm
really interested that the the butchers
whether he's all she butchers that they
it's part of their craft if they're
doing it right to be able to tell
whether an animal is going to cook up
well know in your product yeah and
there's there's an incredible butcher in
Cornwall in Lewiston called Warren's
which a lot of top chefs are using in in
London and the rest of the country now
and they they go above and beyond so
they actually go as far as to work with
the farm
not only in selecting which which kind
of breeds of cattle that they're rearing
for flavor for different flavor purposes
but also what the cattle are fed on and
how they're finished so they take them
to finish them on pasture and then at
the butcher they have these incredible
chambers where they dry-aged them using
these really big blocks of Himalayan
salt yeah I think yeah and and what they
know about me is is you know they are
actually educating chefs that work with
them about the meat and about the aging
process and they really are experts in
their field that's that's Warren's in
Cornwall yeah well that's worth watching
out for because I don't think I don't
think I can learn myself what a really
delicious Peter piece of meat is gonna
how to choose a particular steak maybe
if I'd been you know today well I bet
you if we put four raw steaks in front
of you one that was really one was
really good one with that was it so
great what you would be able to you
would just instinctively know which one
is gonna cook it well bright red and has
that kind of luminous red thing I think
that's a mistake when it's too bright
red highly likely that was an animal
that was stressed during the law really
if it if it's got no fat in it I
wouldn't go for that one because I think
it needs some marbling through them
thank you so you already know atomic
your restaurant you're a different level
from me aren't you yours that you're
seeking the best of the best
yeah but its own but you know that would
you like the yellow fat or anything like
that no no no you just looking for fat
content yellow fat probably means it's
been fairly as corn fed or maize fed or
maize finished in and that's a that's a
big different I guess another big thing
as well between where you were talking
about the best date you've had and was
in the USA however that piece of meat
was probably maize or corn finish so it
was a high fat content of texture and
I'm sure it was great but flavor-wise
grass-fed feel completely grass-fed
British beef is fantastic so you know
that those are the differences that just
that I mean that's super fine detail but
you can textually difference and
flavor-wise you can tell difference
between grass-fed and maize fence it's a
bit like what
talking about with cheese you know these
things make a huge difference don't they
what what the animals been finished but
or been feeding on and the grass fed me
is is so so much nicer and the aging
that's really important obviously you
have to trust the butcher that they've
done the number of days that they've
said they've done but is there a kind of
a good number of days to aim for or is
twenty one twenty eight days and
anything more than that and it becomes
what anything more than that all you're
doing is almost dehydrating the meat it
what it does is kind of intensifies the
flavor but you it's shrinking what
you're doing is eradicating moisture is
evaporating so basically Isis it's
shrinking down but the outside of it you
probably need to cut off anyway so
you're just you know you'll gain a touch
of flavor but you're actually losing
moisture and texture so so for me 28
days is absolutely fine and most most
butchers do 21 to 28 days yeah there are
some restaurants really going for it
they with the whole aging thing and with
kind of playing around with the bleu
cheese the umami flavors that develop on
those really really heavily aged animals
so there's a restaurant in Cumbria
called the Lake Road kitchen where they
age their steaks for ninety to a hundred
days and they call it controlled
decomposition and really it's not just
the loss of moisture but the the meat is
actually starting to to decompose
slightly so there's a change in the
flavor and in the tension feeling very
uncomfortable pounding it's it's you
know it is something that there's a lot
of people who have got time for that and
who want to taste those flavours in
their meat personally it's a very
distinct flavor having made this been
aged that long it isn't the song he
wouldn't you you wouldn't just go out
and Saturday night going on gonna have a
steak this is quite a specialist thing
that you d probably once maybe twice a
year and go you know it was a big pouch
it's good
that's something then goes beyond eating
a steak that becomes enter into another
realm of that it's almost like eating
game in the 80s or early 90s where it
was big and strong and flavor and it
wasn't about Italy it's a different
level of food understanding there it's
not just going do I find he's taking
chips that's like going
something quite specialist it's quite an
extreme and it's it's all about those
other more interesting flavors isn't it
it's a whole thing but it is great it's
taste fantastic but it's not you if
you're going looking for a steak you'll
come away disappointed if you're going
for is looking for an amazing flavor
explosion then it's something completely
different
full-on beefiness like yeah big strong
gamy flavors yes looking for something
different
I met a surgeon once who had was very
keen amateur cook and he'd found a
recipe a heston recipe for beef that was
cut an incredibly low temperature for 24
hours and he got er all excited and kind
of loads there and he jarred breath and
he kind of went went pale and he said
that is the smell of gangrene so he
didn't enjoy that that was probably what
this controlled decomposition smells a
bit like see that that comes from when
you're cooking things at a low
temperature it wasn't correct in the
first place so this is buying the
correct produce because then if you're
going to cook something that's low and
slow and a very low temperature it has
to have been bacteria-free it has to be
it has to be correct in the first place
before you put it in a vacuum sealed bag
and cook it in low temperature he
wouldn't have had that piece of meat
there may have been something an issue
and then it's just then cooked at a low
temperature and festive yeah so there is
there is nothing wrong with cookies and
their lower temperature if you have all
the scientific and critical control
points put in there like Heston does can
we talk about something more cheerful
how about um Wagyu beef is that the same
as Kobe beef and have I said those two
words right because I didn't say the
same thing yeah Kobe is a region of
Japan where Wagyu beef will come from so
it's a Wagyu beef is a style of Japanese
beef that is um has a grading system put
in place that it's high fat content
that's but I mean drinks beer even a
massage and completely has this
wonderful tranquil life that is but it's
all about fat content and and it's you
have to cook it to me
maybe medium-rare at the most because
you have to cook it to the point where
the fat dissolves because otherwise it's
it's too fatty
a nice big becomes very buttery as such
a high fat content and is amazing
Pacific Life far I know in a sense
you're maybe not quite that fast here in
Fargo is like 90% of fat however it's
super fatty it needs to be looked after
because it's the way that the Japanese
cooked beef is very different to the way
that we could be so in the UK we we see
things that we like it on a chargrilled
or barbecued or off but heavily roasted
or autumn whereas the Japanese a lot of
people in their own homes don't even
have ovens or bake it big functional
kitchens because space is a premium for
example in Tokyo in the center of Tokyo
most people have a very very tiny hob
with a pot where they might just have
some stock that bowls away and the last
minute they're putting some very thinly
sliced beef and stir it in and serve it
at that point that's where the beef kind
of dissolves and it's got this lovely so
they don't necessarily have steaks where
it's seared up a steak so it's a very
different breeding process for a very
different cooking method but it has it's
all about texture with Mugu beef is all
about texture
what about wangus amazing so that's a
cross between Wagyu beef and Aberdeen
Angus so there's a breeder that's based
up in Scotland is there the best of both
worlds it's amazing it roasts
beautifully as this fantastic grass-fed
flavour of British beef but then it has
this because it's bread with Wagyu like
sired with amazing a graded Wagyu beef
that it has this fat content that's
amazing so texturally it's fantastic
flavor-wise it's beautiful cost-wise
I mean you know it's some suits up there
who do they drink beer up there and
listen to the radio as well they have a
massage there well looked-after in some
very quiet beautiful rolling countryside
in the highlands I want to be reborn as
one of these well yeah at some point you
do get slaughtered in here so yeah I
mean it has a sell at some point it does
come to an end
still to come on BBC good foods podcast
with Tom carriage
we're always interesting you're in your
health and how you keep it and to keep
yourself looking great is steak part of
your normal diet or is it a special
occasion not now not now I've changed
the way they'll eat a little bit and so
Stig doesn't play a part
much but I'd love it to however I swap
steak for baked potatoes so right now
it's Tom to cook the different cuts
different ways I mean bavette we've
talked about that but that gets held in
two very hot pans so we what about the
rump and the sirloin and the rib rib eye
you know I'd cook them all the same way
but then we got a budget which is how in
hard and fast in a pan with oil and
butter plenty of salt and pepper and see
that and the butter goes into the pan
and camera noises and brains and then
you sear it up very very hard and fast
and heavy like almost charred crisped up
then taken out and rested and like
simple as that simple as that but it's
got to be a thick cut canto it's quite
often people buy steaks at too thin and
then they try grilling them and by the
time they've got any color on them
they've just over three centimetres
thick sort of thing and you know yeah
yeah yeah like a nice thick steak and
then she baste it lemon juice yet and
then lemon juice at the end keep basting
flavors TRUCKING so have roses garlic
that she's brought in throwing sometime
like just constantly baste it baste it
baste it take it off and rest it and the
resting process is really important and
the resting for how long 15 minutes yeah
and the seasoning to do that in advance
or before it goes in the pan or
afterwards or in advance in advance and
there's so salt not with pepper actually
so just salt so season heavy season
so probably 10 minutes before cooking
and what the salt does is helps to draw
moisture so that moisture comes to the
steak that means that when you put it
into the pan
you've got this it gives it a really
nice crust it's a way of getting a nice
crust and see I like this crust on an
outside of a steak so it's so you've got
this crispy outside and then when you
cut them in you've got this gorgeous
soft lovely Center due to round the
edges as well all the way around the
edges so kind of roll it roll it round
yeah this isn't something that you can
just like put in a pan and go and watch
the telly you've got to you're you are
cooking state you cook got to give it
some logs yeah and you do you can just
separate once though can't you yeah I
can I've done many a year on the sauce
section which is the meat and fish so
yeah you said if they're in a normal in
a home kitchen if there were two or four
of you you could fit them in the pan and
do them all at once you could yeah and
then you'd have to put your oven on 50
degrees centigrade and when they're all
seared up and taken it you could put
them into the oven sit them at 50
degrees degrees centigrate just sits
there is a resting and hold another nail
sit there it won't go cold and it will
just yeah for 15-20 minutes fantastic I
want to ask you about the pan sauce in a
moment because we've had someone from
Instagram who is wanting about pencils
but just before I do that how do you
know when it's cooked in practice oh
that's so help Rosie isn't that just the
cousin that solve all our problems well
I say what it is that's the only way of
saying because you know that thing where
people say but Rosie doesn't even cook a
steak very often she only cooks one once
in a blue moon she's never gonna get
enough practice to get it right how
often really practice yeah I think it's
about feeling your way with it isn't it
and and there is that whole hand there's
quite a good methodology the hand thing
so if it's if you clench together you're
if you'd make a fist with your thumb
tucked under your fingers if you if you
hold it quite tensely and tap on that
muscle there if that's very tense
I should explain to those this thing
this is easy you need to be watching
this but there is a video on the good
food web yeah so you can see someone's
hand and what it's meant to be looked
like looking at because you're you're
kind of making a fist and poking
different parts of your hands yeah
definitely and it's about texture and
it's how you like it done personally so
if you like your stay
super-rare then if you touch it in the
pan and it feels soft once it's got a
nice caramelized char on it you know
that you need to take out off the pan
and rest it otherwise it's going to go
over if you like it more medium-rare
then you want it a bit firmer and it's
about touching it isn't it and listening
to it all about
now I'm really losing you what does it
what does it sing a song when it should
make a lovely noise when it goes in the
pan so it should sizzle really really
simple and then you know it should
develop that nice caramelization on the
outside and then yeah just keep kind of
touching it keep an eye on it and then
know when to take out and rest and you
touch it in the middle or on the rack
yeah go for it want to go in the middle
because that's where that's where so
that would be the steak that you're
touching yeah so I'm touching in the
middle in the middle of the day I say
how confusing is all this this is why
it's all about practice the hard thing I
just find ridiculous everything about it
is I because a steak each cut of meat is
that human beings we're all different we
all have different muscle breakdown we
all have different water contents we all
have different we're all different so a
steak is exactly the same they're all
different and the only way you get to
learn to cook the most beautiful steaks
is by doing them and practicing them
again again and then that way you'll
know each time okay look by the way
angles like something like a bavette or
an only is going to be more wobbly even
when it's cooked it's it so the hand
test doesn't work on a cart like that
because of the texture of the meat if we
get cooking steaks mate you got me man
so about my digital thermometer will
that help yeah that would help because
you were where was around about 56
degrees but again you're cooking that in
a in a hot pan so you're gonna bring one
and taken out when it's the middle
around about 40 45 degrees leaving it to
heat continues to cook it yeah so it is
its but again that will come from
practice because you don't know when
depending on the thickness when do I
take it at the pan you know all of those
it is all practice mistake the other
alternative is don't cook steak go out
to a restaurant a good one and all the
state let somebody practice
do it for you well I wish that I could I
wish to always arrive the way that I
would like it to because it doesn't
always it can be disappointing a shame
isn't it and it's such a waste because
it's like as we've been saying as we've
been touching on it's such a you know
there's so much work that goes into
making a stake and making a cow
and yeah it's a shame to waste it
so Tom I've got this pan with the stake
is now resting the 50 degree oven I've
got a lovely oil and caramelized butter
in there I now like to make a quick pan
sauce just a just a pinch off how can I
do that okay pour most of the oil away
like most of it I reuse that no no cause
that way okay no pour it away get rid of
it then into that you put some chopped
shallots which are lovely like so sweet
not onions you want to use shallots
okay throw them into the pan some thyme
leaves bit garlic cook them out soften
them up pour in a bit of glow big splash
of red wine reduce it down glaze it
maybe a little spoonful of red currant
jelly if you wanted to little splash of
red wine vinegar beef stock bring it up
to the boil reduce it down splash of
cream take it off throw in another
butter stir it around pasta to receive
pour on your steak that was amazing what
that was a performance you and I do on
stage you can put very some crap black
pepper awesome like you can get lovely
little green peppercorns there and brine
and they're amazing throw them in a
beautiful peppercorns awesome a little
stir add Dijon mustard into it all those
sort of things they just keep adding
layers of flavors if you want taste it a
few times and juice it up yet forget
salt into it so it's really important
for making everything yeah we've taught
thought before you you're a heavy user
of so I am yeah yeah I am yeah I it's
one of those things that if you come to
van of flowers you'll know it in their
everyday and we're all about driving the
flavour forward flavor flavor flavor and
so enhances flavors and it is listen as
a salt content it's it's higher than
most dishes would recommend almost like
against NHS guidelines however you're
not over a week it's balanced out if you
eat with Hannah fro water is is about
just driving the flavors and making it
so important as tasty and super special
on underseasoned steak is a real crime
it really is it's such a waste
underseasoned anything on the season
yeah and one things to taste of what
they're supposed to taste of although
it's about flavor we're in living in a
world of food this is a food podcast
this is about what it should taste like
this isn't the health podcast yeah like
if it was I wouldn't be Satya we're
we're about what the things taste like
how do we make them lovely salt
seasoning his all about flavor yeah but
your you've got a great health story tom
and we're always interested in your in
your health and how you keep it and and
keep yourself looking great is steak
part of your normal diet or is it a
special occasion no not now I've changed
away that a little bit and it used to be
huge yeah I went through a period of
fear no way yeah well I went through low
low carb so I got rid of it so protein
was heavy on protein and so steak was a
huge part of it yeah steak chicken that
sort of stuff
now it's slightly different I'm on a
lower calorie Control think and I'm
trying to do a different idea and so
steak doesn't play a part as much but
I'd love it to however I swap steak for
baked potatoes so right now it's you
know I don't know cottage cheese Rosie
that makes me very sad no I still eat do
you know like who invented it because
amazing some shreddy
thing nothing nothing else that is like
that in the mountains well there's a few
things that are like that but I don't
want to eat them what about the other
sources
Tom do you have a other favorites like
um peppercorn or blue cheese or
bearnaise
Bernays is amazing a good in the
restaurant yep
yes thank you whipping up the bearnaise
yeah every time it gets asked for make
it we make it per service we make it and
then hold it in a hold it in temperature
right so yeah so we we make we make
Bernays yeah twice at least twice a day
and we make loads of it big strong you
want base of acidity of shallots with
white wine white vinegar a tarragon
peppercorns all of those sort of things
and the big flavors so it's not just
this kind of like rich buttery sauce
through it you've got the counterbalance
we finish it with Cabernet Sauvignon
vinegar lemon juice so like so it all
really pungently and then loads and
loads of chopped tarragon yeah sounds so
good a really good thing for home cooks
if they're having steak night is to make
a kind of compound butter so rather than
having to muck around after you've been
cooking the steak and that's quite good
establish that's quite stressful and
takes a lot of practice but you need to
be an octopus don't ya he's got this
hand here more than worrying about the
oven you've got this one here it's a
little making chips but you could make a
nice butter ahead of time you know with
shallots and like you say tarragon a bit
of vinegar maybe a bit of mustard we
could do a blue cheese one like we were
talking about stilt and that's lovely
with steak and then just slice a disc of
it and put it on top of the the warm
steak and let it melt down into the
steak and thing really after bearnaise
isn't it because it's the butteriness
without the difficulty of making and
also those butters at Rose mentions that
you can keep in the freezer so they
weren't really well you if you make a
batch if you get a couple of packs a bar
beat them together with all the flavors
and then roll them into like in little
things a sauce yeah stick them in the
freezer they they're they're great
they're great and you using bit by bit
there's no problem I think people are
understandably worried about making you
a Bearnaise sauce because it can of
course split yeah and if it does it's a
bit tragic I mean I I add an ice cube
which a small ice cube usually saves the
day and gives you another life but
otherwise it's horrible you can't really
serve it it's very difficult yeah it's
one of those like mayonnaises I mean
mayonnaise is relatively hard to make I
suppose if you're not practicing the
understanding of how to emulsify it
then Bernays his next level because it's
the same sort of emulsification but it's
now has temperature involved you know
that you've got to have things at the
same so they are steak
Bernays and chips right sounds like the
simplest of things but to get right and
perfect every time it's so it's
technically incredibly difficult
it's a lovely challenge for a passionate
home cook I'd say it's one of those
things that you tackle head-on and you
want if you want to have a go at making
Benes well that is going to be fun it is
challenging but there's you can get so
far with a very very good steak a really
good quality shop-bought Bernays you
know you can take shortcuts if you
instead of the chips if I'm having
Bernays I want chips two different we
should probably have something to eat at
this point I think we've got we got very
nice recipe we've got a Tom character
has to be from the good food web it's at
stake it's of course it's steak it's all
done in one pan so it's some with
potatoes and peas and you've got
something exactly radishes it's so nice
to see a radish see let's slice take out
great this that look nice and pink in
the middle that looks absolutely and if
I can return to these radishes because I
would never seen radishes and here we've
got these wrenches in this this is a
clever vegetable dish or potatoes and
radishes and peas and it was cooked in
the pan while the steak was resting I
love a radish this Sun is so beautiful
they're pepper you're strong they're
delicious them and you cook them or do
you like them raw as well as go for an
amazing yeah they're so so good I love
radishes they're just they're just for
him um while we're enjoying that blue
cheese sauce is that something that
you're you're keen on or do you think
that's a bit overpowering for a steak
well I think I think it goes well with
the steak but it is quite overpowering
if you like those big strong flavors
it's good it you know steaks have robust
they pick stuff they they can they can
they can hold a big flavor
yes the blue cheese becomes quite
prominent it ends up being a bit of a
blue cheese fest if you're not careful
it does yeah go careful with it but at
the same point it's not like it's
something that's super subtle that you
know you're gonna lose
is everything it is when you eat a state
like that is about robust flavors and
you know blue cheese it goes with it is
is absolutely fine
it's knew it wouldn't be my first choice
of actual sauce to go with it but if it
came with it or someone else I yeah I
quite happily are quite happily of it
now we're running out of time so I just
wanted to ask you one quick question
there are these some funny steaks now
coming in like like tomahawk steaks and
t-bone steaks I know t-bone steaks been
in the States for a while are they just
a gimmick they're very very big no puns
are amazing so t-bone deep t-bones huge
there isn't it yeah but yeah but well
yeah you want it nice with it but what
it is that's the best of both worlds
that's fill it and the sirloin so it's
where it's where the actual rib cage is
and it's bit of it size that's right so
the sirloin is on the outside animal the
Phil it is on the inside of the animal
and when it's cut through the middle so
you've got um you've got both steaks on
the bone you have to roast it on the
bone so that they don't shrink up and
it's fun when you say roast you do that
in the oven though no no so it's cooked
on the bone so it's amazing tomahawk I
mean that's a real that's a rib of thumb
cut it is it's a very it's a cote de
boeuf it's a ribeye steak just the bone
is a lot longer which looks amazing
serves in a brilliant Steakhouse
restaurant in the middle of Mayfair
amazing at home you ain't got a pan to
get that in it's not big enough don't
bother getting one of those all your PO
all you're buying is extra long bone
right if you've got a dog it's good if
you've got dog that likes beef bones
ya don't have two dogs cuz they'll fight
over it well thank you very much I've
got a whole load of inspiration for my
next steak night radishes I know I've
got to be practicing so I'll do that
thank you very much Rose Ian Tom
pleasure pleasure
see you next week thank you for
listening to today's show you'll find
the recipe and thousands more on BBC
good food comm if you have a minute we'd
love to hear from you on Twitter
Facebook or Instagram
BBC good food
[Music]